== Welcome ==

Welcome the Neuvoo project! You can read all about [[About Us|who we are and what our goals are]], or you can use one of the handy links below. If you ever get stuck, find a bug, or have an idea, please join us in conversation in IRC freenode#neuvoo.

We send out a huge [[Thanks|thanks]] to those who helped us, directly or indirectly, by writing documentation, tools, patches or just answering our questions.

== We're Here to Help! ==

Gentoo isn't always easy to install or mess with. Please use our support channels, such as our IRC channel and mailing list, if you ever get stuck!

== Users ==

===== Installation =====

Stop by [[Installation|this page]] to get step-by-step instructions on installing and configuring a pre-built image.

===== Gentoo Quick Start =====

The [[Gentoo QuickStart|Gentoo Quick Start]] page demonstrates the different ways Gentoo handles things, which simultaneously shows why Gentoo is awesome, and how to use it.

===== Tools =====

[[User Tools]] has additional tools made by us to make your Gentoo experience better on your mobile/embedded platform.

===== Support =====

Please use the appropriate git repository when reporting an issue, or you can reach us in the IRC channel mentioned above!  Additionally, you can reach our mailing list here at [http://groups.google.com/group/neuvoo Neuvoo Google Group]

== Developers ==

===== Custom Images =====

You've seen all the Pre-built images available, but you want to create your own. That's reasonable. We understand that. We created a [[Custom Image|tutorial]] to guide you through the process we figured out ourselves, from creating the cross-compiler to packaging up a final image.

===== Documentation Guidelines =====

There are certain areas of our wiki that need to remain consistent so it is easy to organize and reuse information, please check out our [[Documentation Guidelines]] for common and consistant nomenclature especially if you wish to contribute.
