== Welcome ==

Welcome the Neuvoo project! You can read all about [[About Us|who we are and what our goals are]], or you can use one of the handy links below. If you ever get stuck, find a bug, or have an idea, please join us in conversation in IRC freenode#neuvoo.

We send out a huge [[thanks|Thanks]] to those who helped us, directly or indirectly, by writing documentation, tools, patches or just answering our questions.

== We're Here to Help! ==

Gentoo isn't always easy to install or mess with. Please use our support channels, such as our IRC channel and mailing list, if you ever get stuck!

== Users ==

===== [https://github.com/Neuvoo/information/install/README.mediawiki Installation] =====

Stop by this page to get step-by-step instructions on installing and configuring a pre-built image.

===== [https://github.com/Neuvoo/information/guide/Gentoo_QuickStart.mediawiki Gentoo Quick Start] =====

This page demonstrates the different ways Gentoo handles things, which simultaneously shows why Gentoo is awesome, and how to use it.

===== [https://github.com/Neuvoo/user-tools Tools] =====

Additional tools made by us to make your Gentoo experience better on your mobile/embedded platform.

===== Support =====

Please use the appropriate git repository when reporting an issue, or you can reach us in the IRC channel mentioned above!  Additionally, you can reach our mailing list here at [http://groups.google.com/group/neuvoo Neuvoo Google Group]

== Developers ==

===== [https://github.com/Neuvoo/information/developers/Create_Image.mediawiki Create Image] =====

You've seen all the Pre-built images available, but you want to create your own. That's reasonable. We understand that. We created a tutorial to guide you through the process we figured out ourselves, from creating the cross-compiler to packaging up a final image.

===== [https://github.com/Neuvoo/information/misc/Documentation_Guidelines.mediawiki Documentation Guidelines] =====

There are certain areas of our wiki that need to remain consistent so it is easy to organize and reuse information.
