{{TOC_right}}

This is the official release for 0.3.0. The features included in this release are:

* Utilize official Gentoo stage3 as baseline for 0.3.0 images.
* Move as much as possible from /etc/make.conf to custom Neuvoo /usr/portage/profiles
* Use Metro to build the image.
* SquashFS portage tree, which is down from 600M to 36M.
* A lightweight graphical environment

== Status ==
'''Not yet completed:'''
Finalizing release

== Standards ==
This image follows the following common Neuvoo development standards, which are:

* It boots!
* It is fully reproducible using documentation on this page.
* Never, ever edit make.conf for profile purposes.
* All bugs are documented and reported upstream or in Gentoo's bugzilla prior to release.

== Download ==
See [[Install Pre-Built Image]] for instructions on installing this image.

<dirlist>neuvoo/images/0.3.0/official</dirlist>

How to pick the right file:
* Decide whether beagle or touchbook best matches the device you wish to run it on. Pandora users will want touchbook. More generic installations can be had with beagle.
* Select stage5 for a desktop installation, or stage4 if you have different ideas for a desktop. Stage3's are out of scope for this project. Stage3's can be found 
[http://distfiles.gentoo.org/releases/arm/autobuilds/current-stage3/ here].
* Download the sha512sum file if you want to verify the files you downloaded are not corrupted. (This is a good idea.)

The root password is the same for all of them. It is "root".

== Roadmap ==
* We now use Mantis to track our roadmap. See this page: http://neuvoo.org/bugs/roadmap_page.php

== Specifications ==
These specifications are defaults, and variations are expected to follow them to maintain binary compatibility. However, please check each variation's specifications 
before assuming they are compatible!
* Toolchain: armv7a-unknown-linux-gnueabi
** cc: gcc-4.3.4
** libc: glibc-2.10.1-r1
** binutils: binutils-2.19.1-r1
** headers: linux-headers-2.6.30-r1
* Binary repository: see [[Binary Repositories]]
* Bugs: [http://neuvoo.org/bugs http://neuvoo.org/bugs]

== Known Issues ==
These issues each describe a bug we were unable to fix before releasing 0.3.0. Instructions on how to fix each bug by hand are given.

In all commands, replace $STORAGE with the path to the Neuvoo installation.

=== Pandora in General ===
The experience of Neuvoo 0.3.0 on a Pandora is not entirely easy. The most annoying problems are because we didn't have a Pandora unit in time to prepare a 
0.3.0-official variant for the Pandora.

=== [http://neuvoo.org/bugs/view.php?id=39 Bug 39]: xdm starts too early ===
When Neuvoo is first booted, the user is presented with a login screen. However, there are no users set up, and the root user cannot login here.

Here's how to work around this issue:
# Before booting up Neuvoo, remove the $STORAGE/etc/runlevels/default/xdm symlink.
# Once you boot up Neuvoo, you will be presented with a text-based login. Use the root username and password to log in, and follow the post-boot installation 
instructions that correspond with your device in the [[Install Pre-Built Image]] page.
# When you've finished with the post-boot installation instructions, add xdm back:
{{Command|<nowiki>rc-config add xdm default</nowiki>}}
Reboot when you're ready, and you will be able to log in properly.

=== [http://neuvoo.org/bugs/view.php?id=51 Bug 51]: /etc/conf.d/modules is not complete ===
Before you can calibrate the screen or use the wifi, at least, you're going to need the following line in /etc/conf.d/modules so they auto-load on startup:
{{File|/etc/conf.d/modules|<pre>
modules="omaplfb board-omap3pandora-wifi"
</pre>}}
Since you're using the touchbook image, there's an extra "rt3070sta" module mentioned. You can overwrite that with the line given above.

=== [http://neuvoo.org/bugs/view.php?id=41 Bug 41]: touch-screen calibration ===
On the Pandora, the touch-screen will act strangely until you calibrate it. Before you add xdm back as instructed above, run "ts_calibrate":
{{Command|<nowiki>TSLIB_TSDEVICE=/dev/input/by-path/platform-omap2_mcspi.1-event TSLIB_CALIBFILE=/etc/pointercal TSLIB_CONSOLEDEVICE=none TSLIB_FBDEVICE=/dev/fb0 
ts_calibrate</nowiki>}}

Unfortunately, you may not be able to type the _ character due to the Pandora's odd keyboard setup. To work around ''that'', place the command above in a script stored 
in $STORAGE:
{{File|/my_ts_calibrate.sh|<pre>
TSLIB_TSDEVICE=/dev/input/by-path/platform-omap2_mcspi.1-event TSLIB_CALIBFILE=/etc/pointercal TSLIB_CONSOLEDEVICE=none TSLIB_FBDEVICE=/dev/fb0 ts_calibrate
</pre>}}
Using the file name example we gave, executing the following commands will do the trick:
{{Command|<nowiki>sh /my_ts_calibrate.sh</nowiki>}}

=== [http://neuvoo.org/bugs/view.php?id=42 Bug 42]: first graphical login fails ===
gdm, the login screen you see when you boot up Neuvoo, uses "Failsafe Terminal" as the default session. However, you really want LXDE.

To work around this, the first time you log in, pick LXDE in the session list in the lower-left corner.

=== [http://neuvoo.org/bugs/view.php?id=40 Bug 40]: pandora-extras ===
If you are using a Pandora, you may want pandora-extras, which "provides configuration for wifi, nubs, LED's, and keyboard". Once you're logged in, run:
{{Command|<nowiki>echo "sys-apps/pandora-extras" >> /etc/portage/package.keywords/pandora-extras</nowiki>}}
{{Command|<nowiki>emerge -g sys-apps/pandora-extras</nowiki>}}

=== [http://neuvoo.org/bugs/view.php?id=38 Bug 38]: openntpd's permissions are messed up ===
ntpd somewhat silently fails to start because ntpd wants precise permissions in /var/lib/openntpd which were not provided by default. You can set these permissions up by 
running:
{{Command|<nowiki>chown root -R $STORAGE/var/lib/openntpd/chroot</nowiki>}}
{{Command|<nowiki>chmod 700 -R $STORAGE/var/lib/openntpd/chroot</nowiki>}}
If openntpd is already running, you may want to try to restart it now:
{{Command|<nowiki>/etc/init.d/ntpd restart</nowiki>}}

=== [http://neuvoo.org/bugs/view.php?id=43 Bug 43]: binhost is missing ===
[[Binary Repositories]] are available, but they became available too late to be included by default in 0.3.0. Visit that page to use one for your own system.

== Package Listing ==
''Coming soon: a big list of packages and their versions and USE flags here.''

== Included make.conf ==
{{File|/etc/make.conf|<pre>
Coming soon: the contents of the make.conf included with the variant.
</pre>}}

== Configuration Changes and Other Customizations ==
''Coming soon: a description or list of patches that properly describe any changes made beyond the defaults included with each installed package.''

== Further Reading ==
For information on how to install an image, see [[Install Pre-Built Image]].

For information on building your own images, see [[Create Image]].
