A short description of the features this release brings to the table.

== Status ==
A very simple description of where we are at. Could be "in early development", "testing images", "Adding finishing touches", and so on. If a release date is known, it 
could be included here.

== Roadmap ==
* A bullet point list of features could go here.
* A link to a list of bug reports targeted towards this release could also go here.

== Specifications ==
These specifications are defaults, and variations are expected to follow them to maintain binary compatibility. However, please check each variation's specifications 
before assuming they are compatible!
* Toolchain: xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx
** cc: gcc-xxxx
** libc: glibc-xxxx
** binutils: binutils-xxxx
** headers: linux-headers-xxxx
* Binary repository: [https://code.edge.launchpad.net/gentoo-pandora-binaries/x.x.x]
* (above specifications are required, but more can be added here.)

== Images ==
{|
|-
|Variant||Author||Description
|-
|[[/Variant|base (or some other name here) (this should link to the release image's page)]]
|Either "Official Developers" or the names of those involved
|A little paragraph here about what makes this release image such a wonderful pick. Note that the name of the release image is only the variant name, without any version 
numbers
|}

== Further Reading ==
For information on how to install an image, see [[Install Pre-Built Image]].

For information on building your own images, see [[Create Image]].

(Include other links here.)
